# Apple-defect-sorting
To meet the need for miniaturized, high-precision automated sorting equipment in small and medium sized orchards, this study developed a compact in-field intelligent apple sorting system with a "single-camera, three-lane" architecture. To address the difficulty of detecting apple surface defects under long-range imaging and the false rejections caused by single-frame detection, the work focused on three components: defect detection, target association, and trajectory-level decision-making. An apple defect dataset was constructed for this sorting scenario, and a defect detection model, MOD-DETR, was proposed by integrating a FasterNet lightweight backbone, an optimization-stage enhancement network (OSENet) with an adaptive multi-scale fusion module (AMSF), and a dynamic balanced reparameterization structure (DBRC3) into RT-DETR, thereby improving the representation of defects under long-range imaging. Furthermore, to address the high visual similarity among fruits and kinematically constrained motion trajectories in sorting scenarios, a lightweight tracking method ASORT was proposed. Combined with a trajectory-level multi-frame defect confirmation strategy, it effectively reduces instantaneous false-positives. Experiments on the custom apple defect dataset showed that MOD-DETR achieved a mAP@50 of 86.7%, 1.5 percentage points higher than that of the baseline model, while reducing GFLOPs by 29.4 and increasing inference speed by 23.8 fps. In sorting scenario, the ASORT tracker achieved a MOTA of 97.8% and an IDF1 of 98.9%; in continuous sorting tests on the entire machine, the system’s overall grading accuracy reached 92.5%. The results indicate that the proposed method integrates visual perception, target association and rejection control, providing technical support for apple sorting in small and medium-sized orchards.

# Dataset
To find the dataset used in this study, please make sure all files are downloaded from HERE (For review) (The project is still ongoing, the complete data set remains under protection. Therefore, at this stage, we released part of the data set.) Dataset: https://pan.baidu.com/s/1m_5nDWVRcNsSF2R0qcdfOQ Code:uxbs

# Media Coverage
This project has been featured and reported by multiple industry media outlets:
https://v.douyin.com/6EQBNfSZf1Q/
